to the extent that I can be helpful for
people for the last three or four events
we just kind of do an open AMA at the
end until people get tired or passed out
or whatever so I've got no more slides I
already did did several presentations
today but if people want to come up uh
and chat about anything we've chatted
out these three days or ask any other
questions um just let me know come on up
to the mic and uh I will do the best I
can to dig into anything uh anything I
can
so we can kick it
off
this is my second one super fantastic oh
thanks coming yeah no I mean this has
been this is the best event I go to all
all year every year good to hear um very
very very surgical question um series B
company should product marketing work
for product or
marketing
um boy you know honestly I I'm gonna
I'll give you my thought I'm going to
take a pass I um I don't cons I consider
myself a pseudo expert in a lot of
things but not product marketing product
marketing I think is a weird art I think
I know folks here marketers and
productors and cosos will challenge me I
think we over index in product marketing
I think you know I was briefly uh an SVP
at Adobe I can tell you product
marketing there is super important
because everyone knows Adobe right
everyone literally every per business on
the planet is an Adobe customer they
don't even have like contacts or
opportunities at Adobe because
everyone's a customer so it's critical I
think um these days cosos and others are
looking for too much Ma Magic from
product marketing product
differentiation is important being
crystal clear but until you're massive
there's only so many people to product
Market to right so the rambley answer
which isn't the question you're asking
is I do think we expect too much even
going into series B even up until 10 20
million a I think we expect Magic from
Project product Market I don't see it
there but who should it report to right
um uh well you're right because product
marketing is neither NE product nor
marketing that's the odd thing about
product marketing I don't know why we
call it it's neither it's not really
building a product and it's not actually
getting you any new customers or doing
any marketing so um look I think the
answer I I'm going to give you the same
answer and I have less certainty on this
than I do other things I think it's the
same answer in the early days of who
should my SDR team to report to
sometimes it's clear the SDR team should
report to sales that's natural right but
sometimes what happens these days is
you'll hire a first set of sales that
has never done outbound right and you'll
hire AE of marketing that's managed to
bdr team themselves so actually
sometimes it makes sense for marketing
for the SDR team to initially report to
marketing because the head of marketing
has more experience right they've worked
in a sales driven environment I would
say today if you're not sure should
product marketing report to product or
marketing um Whoever has more experience
managing product marketing and and now
having said that the more technical your
product is maybe whoever is more
technical can do a better job of it but
the person in product is probably not
going to be as slick and not going to
produce the brilliant imagery and tear
sheet and the person in marketing may
not be as deep in product but I don't
have the but generally when you're not
sure between two functions the right
answer is not what seems logical on the
orc chart but who has more experience
the last thing you want is someone
managing a function as you're growing
quickly that doesn't understand the
function this I see again and again uh
hiring a marketer that's never done ABM
have to figure out ABM a marketer that
has only done Enterprise having to
figure out a plg or self-service motion
it just it's it's if you have no other
choice it works but if you have a
function that can float between an org
put it put it where the person's done it
so I am in the process of starting my
own company and I'm of course not you
know invisible to the whole AI Buzz
that's happening in the seems like a big
deal today this this these last couple
days I know who would have think who
would have thought um so my question to
you is for early stage companies or new
companies that are starting out yeah do
you think they should find a way if they
haven't already to add like a AI twist
to it or sprinkle some AI here and there
in their
product well look um first of all I'm
still learning um I'm a pretty pragmatic
person and it's funny did you did you
did you go to the first day session when
I was with David Sachs from Craft
Ventures yes and I thought his answer
was very telling and I'll and I'll
expand on it I said of your $3.5
billion how much of your new money is
going into AI I think he said 80% 80%
yeah and then I asked him and I've known
David since we were Founders together
and I asked him how what's the cool
what's the best product you've seen this
Na and he's like well there's a lot of
good
demos so if you think about it for a
minute this is the conflict all the
Venture money in SAS is going to AI okay
I met uh a little while ago with Byron
deer at who runs the whole SAS Cloud pce
at besser we've been doing stuff
together for years he said the same
thing 80% of bester sass Investments
going into AI okay that's a fact so to
the extent that Venture investment
matters that's super important to
understand but the fact that one of the
smartest people I know Founders David
said it was mostly demo Weare is also
telling isn't it so look the answer is
and so let me let me put it all together
um AI does not magically make every
payroll product better I'm not sure it
makes we could ask dat but looking here
I'm not sure it makes sock 2 better
right I'm not sure every app magically
hooking into the chat gbt API is going
to change the game
um I do think that every smart engineer
today is inspired by Ai and they are
playing with every APA every claw every
anthropomorphic every chat gbt and you
got to give your engineers and your
product folks I mean you're tining
you're starting but you've got to give
your your team even yourself leeway to
think how could what the where AI is
today and I think it's going to be
radically different in two years because
it's early where is it today what
magical things can we do with our
product and you have to be thinking that
way if not you're not state-of the-art
right it's you're not state of the art
if you're not thinking this explosion of
creativity can it make me better but um
if it doesn't it doesn't most of the
stuff at saster is business process
software it's changing the Way
businesses do support or sales or
marketing or compliance um or
procurement and um AI probably is just
going to make them a smidge better right
but so I wouldn't I wouldn't so I
wouldn't be cynical about it I wouldn't
go around uh talking I I talked to too
many founders lately who what do you do
well I'm AI for that I just stop right
just stop just that maybe made sense to
months ago today everyone is assuming
your product has AI in it so start with
what it does again start with a big
problem you're solving why it's
different but make sure you have a
thoughtful response to where I plays in
it that's all I would say all right
thank you so much thank you oh hi Jason
I'd like to know your thoughts on the
the future of lead generation software
and and what do you think would be the
the will be out of the competition
between Apollo and Zu info I know you
like Zu info but um well I love Henry I
think he's one of the great
entrepreneurs of Our Generation I mean
this is I mean Zoom info is at a billion
something revenue is bootstrapped he did
it himself as a first-time founder from
the dirt with no money I mean that's
pretty impressive isn't it um well look
you almost asked two different questions
and I'm I'm not a total expert you asked
about lead generation and then you asked
about two question Zoom info and Apollo
um look the thing is I mean the second
half is data right and data for
marketing data for sales data is
interesting because it's never great is
it no none of these products are great
and I love Henry I love Zoom info I
haven't used Apollo myself but my team
has they people love Apollo right um but
data is data is like security it can't
be solved like you can't solve security
because someone else is going to figure
out how to how to take advantage of
anything and so that that's why security
is one of the most dynamic spaces
because it's not solvable right data is
not solvable data is not you will never
get the perfect database of every buyer
of every SAS company on their every C
it's not solvable so what I just think
is and that's why it's interesting so
that's why uh if if Apollo is as good as
it and I have just haven't used it if
Apollo is as disruptive as it can it
makes sense I would try both doesn't it
it's like security like there are very
few Enterprises that use one security
vendor maybe in the old days they only
use checkpoint okay but today everyone's
got 30
right and so I think I think it makes
sense to try heterogeneous sources of
data I think it's as simple as that I
think Apollo is good and zoom info is
good and none of them will be perfect
you will always find crappy data you
will always find uncleansed data because
it's not perfect and so I actually think
it's probably what's more interesting is
that Zoom info kind of won for a while I
would have expected there' be three to
four vendors you can say Zoom info is
expensive but I would argue if it works
you could buy four of them to get leads
right you can you can always afford more
I'm more surprised there weren't more
more zoom infos and I think there will
be more as much as we can innovate in
the space it will be con it'll be
constantly slowly innovating that that's
as far as I think in terms of Leen I
don't know I I I think it's fascinating
I guess by meta thought um and it's like
my caution to Founders is the tools
change Apollo is newer right the tools
will change um HubSpot half the half the
founders here use HubSpot CRM probably
0% did 7 years ago write a different
like the tools change the tools get more
sophisticated the tools do scheduling
and calendaring and meetings better and
they summarize your meetings and they do
stuff but the basic motions in sales and
marketing haven't really changed have
they we do outbound we do inbound we do
viral now we call this crap VG it's
still viral it's the viral of 20 years
ago it's the viral of Hotmail and and
and other things and you know AB we you
know ABM is a more sophisticated version
of targeting buyers and we do these
things and we're and we're doing we we
all think we're content marketing uh
experts but we've been doing content
marketing since the Stone Age right um
and so I actually don't
see um you know for example one of the
classic saster posts I literally rewrite
every single year is if you do a great
weekly webinar it always works this is
this is so true we even do it ourselves
at saster if every single week at the
same time at Wednesday at 10: a.m. you
do a webinar for prospects and customers
and the first week only one comes and
people are gouchy and then next week two
and then three and then a year down the
road it's 20 and 30 and then they tell
their friends to come and they tell
other people to come this weekly webinar
on its own will not make your company
but it always works right and how long
have we been doing webinars I mean I
don't know since the 1820s or something
like that I mean 20 years so look I
don't someone folks here will someone
will produce some truly disruptive
products in lead generation but my
advice is you got to do the Motions you
got to do the webinar you got to do uh
drip marketing you've got to do
campaigns now maybe SMS will change it
versus email especially if you're in
e-commerce but it's the same basic uh
motions just done with better tools and
and improve channels and my bigger my
biggest fear is that one Founders think
there's a silver
bullet you know someone asked me this
morning what do you think of the fact
that affiliate marketing is completely
disrupting early stage Tas I'm like I
don't I don't think it's disrupting it I
think it's the same old set of things I
haven't seen it I haven't seen everyone
doing Revenue share here dramatically
changing the folks that are here I
haven't seen that I just see the tools
getting better so one don't look for a
Magic Bullet and then two and and again
I'm not perfectly answering your
question but two you got to do them all
and people are lazier than ever in so
many functions today they don't want to
do it all they don't want to I find I
find it so hard to get anyone to do a
weekly webinar anymore people don't want
to do drip marketing to themselves they
think they're above it they don't want
to do events they don't want to do the
booth they don't want to do the steak
dinner they don't want to do field
marketing they just want to be
strategists everyone wants to be a
strategist in 2023 and what happens is
that means you don't do the basic you
instead of writing great content for SEO
you Outsource it to some crappy agency
that recycles chat gbd content you know
how often that works
nuns nuns nuns if you were here last
year were you here last year per chance
no well daresh and Brian the co-founders
of HubSpot came and I I I knew a lot
about I knew them but one of the things
I did in the early days is for two years
each of them had to write a blog post a
day about marketing two of them that's
365 * 2 * 2 What's 365 * 2 * 2 1400
pieces of founder created content not
chat gbt not some crappy agency that
would write a post of how to do
marketing you know great stuff and so
the problem today is people don't do
that right so ramly answer my advice to
folks you got to run the whole marketing
playbook for real you can't be Ley if
you do anything that works if you if you
love podcasting and and then bring a
customer on every week not once in a
while not once every 3 months do a
podcast for 52 weeks a year for real
invite a great industry leader and talk
about something that matters in your
industry promote it even if only eight
people listen I bet one was a prospect
right it all works but if you Outsource
it to some agency to do a lame podcast
once a quarter it's a goose egg right so
uh I think more consistency new tools
same Playbook that's my view thank
you hi Jason hey thanks for coming thank
you um I'm founder of an early stage
company and I'm both CEO and head of
product
many are sorry many are yeah many are
both yeah many are both it works until
it doesn't that's the point exactly the
point is now that we figure out the
value of the product which is the vision
coming true yeah um we want to move more
towards plg and help the clients serve
themselves a little bit more and I've
never worked as a product head of
product before yes um and I feel like it
would be time now it's the time to bring
someone with a bit more technique and
experience but then the product will
lose a little bit of the vision it will
uh how do I balance how do I make this
decision and what have you SE okay let
me let me let me give a longer answer
first listen I I was a product Focus
founder myself who back in the day we
didn't call it plg we call it
self-service and viral okay I'd never
done it I didn't I wasn't an expert
there were no SAS experts 15 years ago
but there were B Toc experts that knew
how to do this right I didn't know how
to do it what I knew was how to make a
product that was incredibly simple to
use I was relentless I my CTO almost
killed me because everything had to be
easy everything had to be friction list
everything had to be on boarding we had
free and free trial like not that many
people do free and free trial because
it's conflict but it forces you to make
the product even easier to use even more
plg even easier okay so I did it you can
do it like if you you've used software
so my point is I think if you are a
product Focus founder there is no and
let me some let me go to the second part
too many Founders these days oh my God
at 1 million 10 million 20 million I
hear something in board meetings other
meetings and I want to bang my head on
the desk and you know what it is plg is
a silver bullet growth has slowed growth
has stalled what's the answer
plg no plg is nothing plg is like Cloud
it's actually nothing it is an amorphous
term term that properly used describes a
set of actions and motions that is
helpful improperly used makes no sense
there are no Cloud magicians if you
don't you can't hire someone to
magically cloudify your application and
you can't hire there are no plg
magicians if you don't know you got to
learn it yourself you got to do it
yourself and if you're product focused
you can do it yourself hiring someone to
do this will be a failure that's that's
my simple answer and it is not a Panacea
is not a Panacea if you cannot force
your tiny team to go to self- serve to
do all this stuff then it's not your DNA
the other problem with this magic bullet
of plg and this has been true since we
used to call it cell server viral is
it's not everyone's DNA right if you are
if you don't do if you have a an
Enterprise or a sales Le motion you
often have humans doing onboarding you
of to have humans filling product gaps
you have to have humans doing
handholding right and uh that's fine in
the Enterprise it fails in in selfs
serve right not everyone can do that
jump a lot of folks will if the deal
size is big enough they will plug the
Gap from deal signed to go live with
humans a self served product can't do
that right you you're not going to do
that so um rambley answer is don't look
for a silver bullet going down Market
does not magically solve problems right
and do it yourself there's no magician
and I generally think so to finish it up
and hopefully this is helpful I do think
these days Founders actually hold on to
being the header product too long which
we could chat more about um but don't
let it go too quickly there's no
magician where you want to hire AE of
product usually as a Founder is not to
make the product better it's when the
product gets too complicated our
products generally start off as simple
we have four people how comp how many
workflows and Integrations and but then
we get 10 customer we get 100 custom we
get 100 customers using 87 different
configurations of our products so 100
time 87 is 8,700 use cases and as a
Founder you have 5 hours a week I don't
care if you were a genius in the early
days you could not remember 8,700
configurations of your product that's
your a product job so you hire a head a
product but if you let it go early
you'll end up with a lot of Gant charts
and figmas and uh beautiful designs and
you'll go nowhere that's my thought
thank you perfect thank
you longtime fan first time attendee
long time fan first- time attendee first
time question first time question yeah
um so I maybe I hope you'll indulge a
quick two-part question so as long as
it's one
part okay brief one brief one yeah I'm
interested in what the odds of success
are so if there's a thousand startups
yeah this Math's crappy keep going don't
listen everyone gets this math wrong
it's stupid math but keep going if
there's a thousand startups in your
experience how many of them will will
hit a 100 million in Revenue as a
freestanding company
okay um how many of them have great
Founders and have uh great initial
traction so in your experience of a
thousand startups how many have let me
give let me give you a fun example so
when I started invest I've been
investing for about 10 years and said
I've only done like 30 Investments okay
here's my first five early stage
Investments first five early stage
Investments um pipe Drive sold for 1.5
billion now doing almost 200 million in
Revenue okay second one algolia worth
three billion doing over 200 million
will IPO next year that's the second one
I invested at $88,000 a month in Revenue
third one is talk Des they're worth 10
billion they're doing hundreds of
millions of Revenue they will IPO
yesterday I invested when it was five
people and one person in the United
States who didn't even have a desk okay
fourth one is greenhouse which is over
there okay they're doing hundreds and
hundreds of millions of dollars and will
probably IPO in two years I in I got I I
invested pre-revenue fifth one was sales
Loft sold for $2.5 billion 12
3121 I was there pre-
Revenue okay so look it sounds like a
humble brag and and it's and it's not
for reasons that we could talk about but
what that's a that's five for
five five for five okay so so um the
sixth one is an ecovery company called
logical that acquired got acquired for
300 million two weeks ago that was the
sixth one so six for six okay um my
point of the story we can dig in is you
bend the
odds you bend the odds now these all now
some of them had a little bit of Revenue
some of them had none of those six okay
they were all great Founders that
hustled that acquired customers and
didn't quit and kept going and we could
talk about the different case studies
because they're fun because it's fairly
diverse and different set of Founders
but I just hate this math of of of a
thousand Founders one only 1% will get
to series a and of that only 0.1 Point
like that's M sort of true how you build
your funnel but the best Founders bend
the odds the best Founders B the odds so
that's on my first six Investments all
six were wildly successful weren't they
from 300 million to 10 billion from the
seed stage now after that I've done
another 25 Investments and I think five
of those 20 five or six of those 25 will
equal the rest but maybe 20 of them 10
or 15 of them won't and that's where um
the folks didn't bend the rules the
founders were good but not great right
they didn't fully lean in in some cases
they quit in some cases they ran out of
money and some cases they didn't try
hard enough in some cases they yelled at
each other and blamed other people right
but the ones the incredible Founders
that never quit that got
customers they they just don't f fail
right so listen that's why the very
first SAS in 2015 our tagline was from 0
to 1 millionaire are impossible no one
needs another product do they there's so
there's 100,000 SAS products 0o to one
impossible 1 to 10 is unlikely because
that scaling so hard 10 to 100
inevitable inevitable and that's still
true today if you can get it to 10
million you have good nrr and the
founders don't quit like even if you're
growing 30% build a spreadsheet you will
go from 10 to 100 if you're patient
enough even if you're at 60% growth even
though the VCS will not invest in you
because you're not growing 100% of 10
million if you grow 60% of 10 million of
course you will get to 100 million won't
you so rambl answer
but if if I could kick anybody give
anybody generic kick in the ass advice
is don't look to these numbers for
excuses it's up it's up to you if you
have a great set of Founders and you
have a great technical founder and great
non-technical founder two techn like if
you can build kickass software for real
and a lot of us can't build kickass
software a lot of folks have a good
business person and a mediocre CTO or an
Outsource development team that's harder
okay that is much more rarely successful
but if you have amazing Founders who are
committed for 10 years and understand
the market you are already better than
99.9% of the rest right and you will not
fail unless you let yourself fail if you
get to just 10 customers because if you
get to 10 you will get to 20 right and I
said this in the earlyer SAS people
thought it was dumb now it's obvious if
you get to 10 you'll get to 20 if you
get to 20 you'll get to 40 to 80 160 320
640 it always happens if you have a
great team and you don't quit and you
get better and better you learn the
industry better from that 10 you you
didn't expect right but then the 20 you
learned if you I don't know if you were
the session with the co-o of Monday Iran
on the first day but I asked Iran how
come 70% of Monday's customers aren't in
Tech why are they in churches and
Agriculture and insurance he's like well
we ran Facebook ads and the tech
companies were too hard to close but we
could close churches so we became a
church company right not literally right
but they didn't quit they leaned into it
they embraced what they were good at and
did and they kept going and going and
building and building and building they
went from 7 million when they came to
saster annual they had 7 million saster
annual in 2017 today they have 700
million so is that is that help just I
just so many people cite these numbers
and I I think they're dangerous for
great
Founders right so that those all of that
first group succeeded right but the last
point I will make of all those the pipe
Drive talk Gia Greenhouse over there um
logical um almost this is the last point
I'm going to make to found almost not
all of them but almost all of them
almost failed so the most extreme
example so logical that just got
acquired even in these tarer times for
300 million a couple weeks ago I was I
was emailing with the founder Andy who's
spoken here you can watch his videos on
YouTube and there and I was looking back
in our investor updates at 15 million in
AR their AR growth was negative for six
months not it didn't shrink it wasn't
the macro economy or blah blah blah blah
blah or wo is me or zurer derper Warp
2019 they had negative growth they hit
10 million really quick they fell out of
product Market fit for a variety of
reasons and they went to 11 pretty quick
and then they decelerated after 20 to 20
to 30 most Founders would have quit they
growth didn't slow to 30% growth went I
couldn't believe it when I looked back I
forgot I'm like you grew n minus 4 point
something per at 13 million Revenue you
just sold for $300
million um if you re Watch Andy from
logical on YouTube and saster uh the
best Founders don't quit they didn't
quit they didn't they didn't got maybe
they got discouraged I never saw Andy
and Chang that discouraged I got I saw
them and they changed their business
model and they went to um pay you go
model and they re re re they changed
their whole ICP and they gave up on
selling to law firms even though they EC
Discovery process and then that did work
they they sold different and they just
and they hired a disastrous CEO who ran
the company to the ground and it took
them too long to figure it out but they
got rid of the CEO and then growth came
back and they got rid of the terrible
vpa sales they didn't quit and they
eventually found the vpa sales and they
never quit and they went from
pretty quickly to 10 million and then
negative it's hard and fast to go
negative right fast forward to 300
million bucks not three billion but
pretty damn good in the founders owned
half so not a bad outcome right so thank
you hey Jason uh I it's going to be the
same questions that uh the same question
that I asked you yesterday but we had
like a very very like uh short time
remind me I'm getting a little tired
perfect um so we're about to hit $2
million in Revenue this year when is the
right time to hire your sales VP and how
do you know like that is the guy that is
the guy can take you to an a round or or
to the next stage thank you look the
answer um I've written this and and no
criticism I've written this at least 80
times since 2012 but I'm going to say it
again because um it's really true and
I've had many conversations around it
this
week for if you can the right the
perfect time to hire the vpa sales is
when you have two scaled reps when you
do what we now all call founder lead
sales when sastra started I just said
you got to do it yourself now we call
founder lead sales ideally take founder
lead sales to two reps that can hit
quota when you have two reps you have
the beginning of an engine you have
something that someone that has sales
experience can replicate okay so if you
have two reps hitting quota you can go
out and fire your first stretch VP of
sales and her or his job will be to take
you from three to 300 once they have two
if they're smart enough to understand
the pattern close some deals themselves
listen and learn to these two the good
ones will listen and learn the mediocre
Ones Will disregard them the two ones
will say it's a blessing and they will
find two others like them and then the
next two will be a little less like them
and the next two as you develop a
Playbook and get some heterogeneity and
some diversity but if you hire ahead of
sales before two reps maybe 5% of the
time it works out there's nothing for
them to build on there's nothing for
them to to VP to be ahead of sales right
there's nothing there so if you wait too
long after to then it's okay but you're
doing founder lead sales too long right
like I think Daniel at Greenhouse is
over here if I remember I think he was
managing 10 reps to start at Greenhouse
in the early days and it just took him a
while to commit to hiring this head of
sales and um so you can do that and and
Greenhouse was very successful but it's
a waste of time to hire reps 8910
yourself someone else that has done
sales before can do that right so that's
the moment in time how do you find
someone great look at the end of the
day two things the first thing I've said
a million times but it's worth repeating
because it's a top 10 mistake Founders
make today too if nothing else um would
you hire them without their
LinkedIn so the mistakes so many
Founders make is you know oh she worked
at twio or you know she worked at
mercury in FC or drada or wherever we
are looking out on this great thing they
worked at expensify or wherever you want
and you're like I need that like I'm
doing something kind of like expensive
if only I could hire this person my my
my problems will be solved and sometimes
it does help a little bit but what we
all make the mistake is we over index on
that and so you got to like take their
LinkedIn and put your hand on top of
that that expensify or dter or whatever
it is or G2 and say would I still hire
them and usually be like well actually
didn't really respond too quickly to the
email actually failed one of the
interviews actually doesn't seem to
understand our product but it it can't
be that hard it's like expensify that's
the mistake we make right so would you
hire them if if if it wasn't for their
and that's mistake number one mistake
number two is you got to hire a stretch
VP you got to hire a first- timer not a
not an SDR to VP but you got to hire
someone from director to VP or head of
to VP or or or something but not a
stretch too far okay this is the tough
Goldilocks thing if you hire someone
that was already a VP of sales here why
are they going to join you at 2 million
probably only because they're terrible
it doesn't make any sense it's illogical
they're probably not good okay um what
you want is a stretch what you want is
um the the the the up and the kid could
be 20 or 60 I don't care about so I'm
using kid as a concept you want the kid
that wants it the upand comer but the
mistake we make when we hire the stretch
head of sales the kid and again the kid
is not chronological is we we we do what
I call and you can research it on sasra
if you if you do the search on our home
site double search we do a double
stretch higher and you can hire someone
that only hired two reps themselves or
three reps themselves at did quota if
you hire someone that hired zero reps
themselves it never works the mistake so
many and I and I'll end with this not
and I'll end with two more things the
mistake so many Founders make Andy from
logical that sold for 300 million made
this mistake himself is you're like I
got to take a risk on a kid right so I'm
going to go to drada again poor Dr I'm
using them right there but it's a great
company and I'm going to find I'm kind
of in the security or compliance space
or something similar I'm going to find
the number one AE I'm going to hire
Elaine she is the best she closed 1.9
million at drada last year she's a
everyone says she's a monster she's
great right all the Reps that say she's
the best at drada I'm going to hire her
as my VP of sales okay and Elaine might
take that job because ela's ambitious
she's the best rep right she she wants
the ring not all reps want to be
managers because there's downside but
she wants it she she wants it and she
put in the years and she put in three
years at drada and crushed it but you
know what nay never did at drada she
never hired anybody she was an IC and
she hit her number what happens and I'm
I'm making up a lane let's let's call
him Bill instead let let Bill comes over
from dra the number one rep and Bill
doesn't know who to hire and Bill tries
to hire the other folks at dra but dra
they would want to leave dra and Bill
doesn't know how to hire Bill's never
hired a quota carrying rep and Bill
can't find anybody in 30 days go go by
and it's bad and so Bill hires a random
recruiter and Bill starts bringing in
random people because Hees because he
doesn't have a network to pull from and
he doesn't have people to bring in and
he doesn't know and the random recruiter
gives them the really mediocre
candidates and no and they don't really
want to work for bill because he's never
done this before and he's and he's not
that polished and you start hiring C
into it and then everything Spirals and
falls apart okay so the ideal stretch
head of sales the ideal one is they're
ambitious they get it you believe in
them but they have to have hired a
couple people that hit quota too if
they've hired two you can run the risk
that they will hire a 100 for you they
can reproduce that experience but if
they've hired none I almost never see it
work and again I'm having fun with
anical just sold for 300 million I
remember we literally had this
conversation
and I got in a lot of trouble for it and
he hired this top a from this company I
said whatever you do Andy don't hire
this guy right and it got me in trouble
because he hired this AE out of another
company I invested in so now I had two
cosos mad at me yelling at each other I
told them not to hire him I'm stuck in
the middle um hires like five never
hired anybody all the next five people
he hires are terrible they close nothing
right so that's long witted summary of
stretch don't double stretch put your
hand over the LinkedIn um and uh make
sure you truly believe in them thank you
very much you're the best
man uh before you go if you're looking
for your next stretch VP give me a ring
he's right here it's right here you can
do the you're not you're not a double
stretch you're just a single stretch
right a single stretch for now stretch
very
good um always be prospecting right um
so related well yeah but let me follow
up that question then answer yours Rel
to the point is here if when you hire
your first head of sales how do you know
if they're a stretch or a double
stretch the great VP like the seasoned
VPS of sales always have like 10 people
that want to work with them they they're
working it between jobs during jobs on
vacation because half the job of scaling
a sales team is recruiting okay so the
best sales leaders I know I bum from a
bunch of sales folks I know here they're
constantly recruiting each other okay
and um they always know hey if when I do
my I love my current company but when I
do my next thing Justin and Ellen are
the two you always hear Justin Ellen who
I'm going to bring with you a stretch VP
doesn't have 80 people but they better
have two or one and when you go to
interview that stretch VP of sales
stretch head of sales ask them who
they're going to bring with you it's one
of my classic 10 interview questions on
sas.com and ask them and ask them and
and you don't need 50 that's that's when
you're you know late stage but make sure
they have two and go interview those two
and find out if they will come with them
sometimes they make the two up sometimes
the two are notional they're like oh I
hope to get Elaina and Bob but I've
never talked to them real head of sales
is recruiting Elaine and Bob constantly
year after year after year after year
right I don't mean grooming in the the
the slightly toxic or pejorative sense I
mean in the oldfashioned sense they are
grooming leaders they are grooming their
team month after month after month after
month that's part of the job so if they
have no one to bring with them don't
hire them so a transition question okay
ask your question sorry you just made my
interview a lot harder okay well see
you're you might be a double stretch I'm
not saying you're not very good but you
might be a double you might be a great
double stretch right and if you do okay
last point if you make the double
stretch if you hire someone that does
not have anyone to bring with them right
that has not scal at least hired
themselves not inherited a team not
inherited not was given a team but hired
to themselves if you're going to do the
double stretch there's only one time it
sort of works is really early because if
you hire a double stretch head at half a
million in Revenue 250 and you can
afford it they have more time they have
more time to learn on the job and they
have more time to start as an IC to
basically carry a bag themselves not for
a week or a quarter but to carry it bag
for 6 months right and be they could
basically be a team lead and if you love
them if you fall in love with them you
can give them you can take a high risk
that they're that they will be good
recruiters but you got to go really
early you got to go really early awesome
um this is related to the topic but the
reason I'm asking uh the question is my
company's going through an acquisition
right now I'm part of the acquired
company yes and you know I just learned
about uh um knock on what data breaks
acquisition and so I'm seeing a a lot of
activity in the market I'm curious
what's your perspective on m& in the
market over the next 6 to 12 months what
your Founders be thinking about for
Founders yeah
um well look I I do think
um uh m&a is definitely for companies
that are north of 20 million in Revenue
that are not burning a lot of money like
The Logical example from two weeks ago
there's a lot of m&a interest for a
variety of reasons there's a ton of
interest from private Equity firms
private Equity firms will buy any SAS
company with High nrr um that are Break
Even north of 20 million like if you get
to 20 here's here's a cheat code for
Founders okay if you're in any
wellestablished category okay anything
that's established and you hit 20
million you're growing even just 30% and
you're have over 100% nrr And your break
even someone will buy you a as part of
financial engineering if you're a 25
million
and they have another and you're doing
whatever they will slam two security
companies together one at 75 one at 25
each only growing 30 put them together
boom you have one at 100 growing 30 that
may be in a year and a half can IPO it's
Financial engineering and the Tomo
braavos and the vistas and smaller folks
do it every week so I know it's not the
question you're asking and I'll talk
about you know the current times but
bear in mind and this is I wish I'd
known this as a Founder because this
started to change just after I sold my
last company to Adobe this this hadn't
matured yet in SAS there is a there is
an offramp as Founders just so you know
it's hard to build these companies and
in the beginning you just want to get
anywhere and then you want to get to 5
million and 10 million a and then
sometimes when you cross 10 million or
so you're like Frack look I got
something but I'm I'm not GitHub I mean
gitlab I'm not OCTA I'm not I'm not
gonna IPO I'm not gonna IPO I'm I and
it's intimidating because what are my
options right and um there are other
things that can come up but here's the
thing that has changed in sass I don't
again if you can get to 20 million or
more and and 20 million is the trip line
for private Equity if you can get to 20
million or more with decent growth and
modest burn you will get offers to buy
you I will bet you dollars to Donuts you
will get offers you will get cold calls
from analysts at perms and others and
you may not want to do it and you may
not like to love the terms and you you
may be bought by something that's a
little aifi or dated
but they there are is an army of capital
whose job it is to buy these because
they become annuities a $20 million
business growing 30% with 110% nrr with
no burn even if the they never ship a
line of code as long as you keep the
customers somewhat happy or trick them
into renewing it becomes a five or 10
year
annuity right so um so that is already
picked up um it briefly receded but
there's there's more money in private
Equity to buy those 20 plus a lowb bur
companies than than targets there's more
money than companies and so you have
this step off point as Founders if you
can just get to 20 with even mediocre
growth you do not have to be a rocket
ship this is not obvious you might need
to be a rocket ship to get bought by
Salesforce or twilio or something
because they want to buy a rocket ship
right you might have to be growing 100%
at 20 million to get bought by a tech
company but you can probably get bought
by P at 30% if you don't burn nothing
right so that is all coming back there's
a surplus of
capital in terms of corporate m&a the
Adobe buying the figmas and and uh sales
horses buying slack you know that's
murky because
um um uh uh things are much better for
public SAS companies now than 12 months
ago that was my opener you can look at
the growth rates the efficiencies things
are better but multiples aren't great
the average public SAS company trades at
6X ARR now when Salesforce bought slack
even Salesforce which is really old I
think it sold at like 25 it traded at
25x a so when multiples are low
um big big m&a is tough it's tough
because it seems very expensive um and
the targets don't want to sell cheap
they don't want you don't want to sell
no one wants to sell for 6X AR no one
that finally got to 8 million of Revenue
is like really excited to sell for 48
million uh after 12 years like they
might do it but no one's uh woohoo 12
years we get to sell for six times our
AR so it's very hard to make m&a work
unless multiples are high and I think
everything's much better in SAS than a
year ago not for everyone but for many
things are better but and that was my
opener multiples are the big question
mark they're not great and this will
damp and what what anybody says this
will dampen m&a and everyone's like oh
you know what what m&a is stupid you
should buy companies when times are bad
and you should not buy things when times
are good it's not that simple because
the big companies do better when times
are good too so when Sal I mean actually
Salesforce had a great year this year
but but the multiple is still low when
you're trading at 20 or 30X revenue and
you can buy something for 18x it feels
cheap right if you have to pay even 10x
Revenue today it feels expensive right
and so m&a gets paralyzed when multiples
are low because the bargains aren't
there and no one good wants to sell no
one good wants to sell cheap Y no one
good wants to sell cheap so there's not
going to be a magic Renaissance
but since things are a little bit better
in the public markets I believe that
every public company wants to do uh
cheap m&a so I think we will see
anything good that can be required for
100 million 200 million 300 million that
is good not that it's pre-revenue will
get bought but I think it will take a
while for like billion doll deals to
come back because the the multiples are
so low right thank
you hi again I actually have a question
from my dad who couldn't make it okay
well then that doesn't count that as a
repeat okay what does dad want um his
name is Andy he's a founder and CEO of
uniper
unip yes um and his question is what is
your sweet spot for making the first
investment in bootstrap startups from
the point of view of ARR number of
customers team size and Order of
preference and then from what type of
business perspective which do you prefer
more like plg SMB or Enterprise sass
well look let me step back for a minute
um people miss
folks that are bootstrap completely
misunderstand how Venture Capital Works
people that are bootstrap think VCS
don't like bootstrapped companies
nothing could be further than the truth
VC's love bootstrap companies if you
talk to excel Partners one of the top
VCS at all times they'll say our
favorite Investments were at lassan
right which I think they bought 20% of
bootstrapped qual Tricks bootstrapped On
and On why do VCS like bootstrapped
there's no one else on the cap
table okay you can within reason you can
buy more you can control more and it's
simpler if you if you can find a
bootstrap company that gets to some
scale that that the last thing you want
to do is have 78 other investors in the
company because there's no room right
there's just no room so every and and
last in for a while I mean Excel had
this practice and it's still there they
tried to hunt all when folks only want
to invest in the Bay Area right like
anything that asset out was terrible
they're like no we we'll go to Australia
and meet those guys uh at lasan we've
heard good things and we'll go to Utah
and meet Ryan Smith they didn't care
because they built real businesses right
and they will tell you those are some of
their best investments of all time so
VCS love bootstrapped for greed reasons
for selfish reasons there's no compet
there's competition there might be
competition for the deal you might get
multiple term sheets but there's no one
else jamming up the cap table so that
people completely misunderstand it
people think VCS are anti- bootstrap no
it is your best dream as a VC to be the
first investor because you I this is
almost a toxic term but VCS want to
control the die they want to be the
biggest investor and have the most
control and the ability to invest more
if if there's an opport they want to
control the DI so they love bootstrap
the problem
is that they don't want slow growing
bootstrap companies this is where
bootstrappers get confused and you'll
meet I just met a great set of Founders
here incredible incredible Founders that
got all the way to 15 million bootstrap
growing 50% okay 50% is not 10% or 20%
that if they commit for another 10 years
they will build the nine figure business
and they will be very rich and have a
great journey but no VC no V A PE firm
like we talked about will touch them at
20 million like they'll get when they
cross 20 million they'll get an offer
for 200 million but no VC is going to
invest at any price because they're not
approaching 100% growth at 15 million no
traditional growth stage VC is going to
touch it right um but it's not because
they're bootstrapped it's probably be oh
and I talked to these guys and they're
great I love them they're at 50 million
and I and I asked them how much cash do
you have because they're bootstop they
have a million dollars on their balance
sheet so they don't have enough to
invest at slowing down their growth and
that's the that's the bootstrap
bootstrapping Paradox challenge right
and that's why you know everything's
hard it's you have to be an outlier to
win but the out the the atasan and the
qualtrics are rare they are rare it's
it's it's a minority of the public assas
companies but there is no B there's VC's
prefer bootstrapped but they are not
willing to give you credit on growth
that's how I summarize they're not
willing to say oh well look 50% growth
is okay it's because you didn't have
money but if I give you money you'll
accelerate to 100 a Founder might
believe that but no VC is going to take
that back no VC is going to say you
would have been 100 at 15 million if
you'd raised 20 so I'll give you 20
there is founder logic in that there was
no VC logic in that so thank you thank
you